Theremin Construction Notes:

Tube Shielding
-----------
It is absolutely necessary to shield the 12A_7 tubes.
Ordinary tube shields may suffice. Alternatively the tubes may be
wrapped with copper or aluminum foil tape. This tape should be grounded.

If a crackling noise is observed, particularly at high volume, the 12A_7
tubes should be wrapped with foil tape to see if the issue is eliminated.


Pitch Oscillators
-----------
Using the layout specified the pitch oscillators MUST be shielded as
shown to prevent excessive coupling between the oscillators. Alternate
layouts orienting the oscillator tanks at right angles (as in the 1930s
instruments) or increasing the distance between them reduce the
tendency of the oscillator tanks to couple and may eliminate the need
for shielding, however there may still be the tendency to couple
through the 12AX7 tubes due to proximity. Tube shields will reduce this
effect.

For flexibility the oscillator cathodes should be grounded using spade
connectors clipped to the pins of the oscillator tank sockets. The
configuration shown on the schematic using the 33% tap point (Pin 5)
is appropriate for the 12AX7 tubes used in testing. This should also
work for 12AT7, 12AY7 or 12AU7 tubes.
If the tank coil develops excessive voltage a lower tap should be
selected.

A pitch oscillator coupling capacitor is included as described by
Robert Moog in his notes on the Rockmore theremin:
    In the tuned circuit portion of the instrument (the back of the
    instrument) there is a small variable capacitor midway between
    the two pitch oscillators. There is a red dot that shows where
    the tops of the plates should be. This adjustment probably should
    not be changed.
    
    This is the "coupling control". It may be just 10 picofarads or
    so,to couple the plate circuits of the fixed and variable
    oscillators. 

Any capacitance here - even as little as 1pF - will influence the
wave shape of the two oscillators. Practical values are ~2-7pF,
The "correct" setting of the coupling capacitor depends on the
potentiometer settings in the mixer circuit as described later.

The coupling capacitor can be eliminated without major effects, but
it presents an interesting opportunity to influence the instrument's
tone.


Mixer Circuit
-------------
Potentiometers between the pitch oscillators and the mixer tube are
identical to values in the Rockmore circuit schematic by Bob Moog.
Values from 25K to 100K were tried and the values in that schematic
give the best ability to vary waveform shape with a typical
(300-degree) potentiometer.
Values up to 100K in both positions may be usable with multi-turn
potentiometers & allow more control. Wirewound potentiometers
should be avoided due to inductance effects on the RF signal.

Note that the setting of the potentiometers affects the tendency
of the pitch oscillators to couple through the mixer tube (V5).
At minimum resistance on both potentiometers the inter-electrode
capacitance between grids 1 & 2 of the EF86 tube will have the same
effect as the coupling capacitor described earlier (effective
capacitance is between 1.5-2.5pF but this varies between tubes).


Grids 1 & 2 of the mixer tube have 1Meg ohm leak resistors connected
to the cathode pin which is grounded directly.
Grid 3 of the mixer tube is connected to the plate to simulate tetrode
operation (emulating a type 24 tetrode). This connection should be made
using the shortest possible jumper between pins 6 and 8.

The setting of the plate potentiometer determines the drive level for the
volume stage amplifier. The combination of this plate potentiometer
and the volume stage plate potentiometer will determine the maximum
final output volume. A 1K ohm resistor is used to set the minimum drive
level. This arrangement could be replaced by fixed resistors if desired.


Volume Circuit
--------------
As with the pitch oscillators the tap on the volume oscillator should
be made using a spade connector. The tap selected primarily influences
the maximum voltage from the DC Restorer circuit, and has a secondary
(minor) effect on the rate of change with respect to hand distance.

