Theremin Design Notes:

Pitch Oscillators
-----------
Hartley oscillators were chosen in place of the Armstrong oscillators
used in Lev era instruments (RCA, Rockmore, Rosen) mainly for ease
of construction (a single coil tank with multiple taps is easier to
build than the transformer type coils).

The cathode is used to pass signal to the mixer stage as it is least
affected by capacitive loading in the mixer tube. Some harmonic
distortion is evident in the output here.


Mixer Circuit
-------------
As in the RCA/Rosen/Rockmore designs the mixer tube is biased beyond
cutoff: The negative peaks from the pitch oscillators are sufficient
to stop the tube from conducting. Overall operation is between class AB 
or class C. Distortion & harmonic content is similar to RCA theremins
based on waveform diagrams from rcatheremin.com.


The mixer tube is configured with G3 (suppressor grid) connected to
the anode. This connection emulates the Type 24 tetrode used in the
1930s instruments.
Connections to ground (typical pentode operation) and to the G2
(screen grid, VPO) signal were both tried and found to be suboptimal.


Volume Circuit
--------------
Construction of the Lev-era volume circuit which operated by varying
filament voltage to a UX-120 triode is not practical: The UX-120
used a directly-heated cathode, and changing cathode filament voltage
rapidly affected electron output (thus affecting available gain).
The modern production EF86 tube used here has an indirectly heated
cathode which carries more thermal inertia and would not produce
adequate volume response for staccato playing.

Instead the EF86 tube is employed as a voltage-controlled amplifier:

The volume oscillator output is passed through a series LC filter
which is tuned by hand capacitance to the volume loop. The volume
oscillator frequency may be selected so the circuit approaches
maximum volume resonance either when the hand is near the volume
loop or when it is away from the loop, as preferred by the player.

The waveform passed through the series LC filter is fed to 
a DC restorer circuit (V4 pins 1 and 8) which converts the
waveform to a DC voltage smoothed by the Volume Buffer capacitor.
This output is one input to the Cutoff Bias voltage divider.
The other end of this voltage divider is connected to the C supply
from a 9V battery, and the potentiomete ris set to drive the V6
into cutoff when the volume circuit output is at minimum.
* The battery in this circuit does not source any DC current:
  The C voltage rail is isolated from DC ground.

The 5K and 100K fixed resistors between the DC restorer and G2
form low-pass filter circuits with the 250pf capacitors to
to suppress RF propagation from the output tube to the volume
circuit DC restorer (V4).
The values here are not critical, however the filter cutoff
frequency should be at most 1/2 of the volume oscillator frequency.


The cutoff bias potentiometer must be a linear potentiometer as
the response of the output tupe (V6) to G2 voltage is approximately
logarithmic.

As designed the output tube G3 (V6 Pin 8) is used as a suppressor
grid. It is possible to tie G3 to G2, either directly or through a
voltage divider, and use both grids to control the volume response
of V6.
